## Dedan KImathi UNiversity's Distinguished Alumni 
## Honoris Causa Graduates
#### 1.His Excellency Mwai Kibaki
On this 1st Graduation Ceremony of The Dedan Kimathi University of Technology, the Senate of the University, under the powers conferred on it by Article 20 (3) (j) of the Dedan Kimathi University of Technology Charter has determined that His Excellency Mwai Kibaki, the immediate former President of the Republic of Kenya, be awarded the Doctor of Humane Letters, (Litterarum humanorum doctor) HONORIS CAUSA. It is a great honour to our University and to the current and future graduands that His Excellency has accepted this Award, thereby becoming the first person to receive a degree from Dedan Kimathi University of Technology. ****
####  2.Dr. Duncan Ndegwa
On this 3rd Graduation Ceremony of Dedan Kimathi university of Technology, the senate of the university, under powers conferred on it by Article 20 (3) (j) of Dedan kimathi University of Technology Charter, and in compliance with the commission for University Education (CUE) standard and guidelines for honorary degrees, has determined that Mr. Duncan Ndegwa be awarded the Doctor of Business Administration (honoris causa) degree. It is a great honour to our University and to the Current and future graduands that Mr. Ndegwa has accepted this Award, thereby becoming the second person to receive a honorary degree from Dedan kimathi university of Technology. **[Read more](https://www.dkut.ac.ke/index.php/dr-duncan-ndegwa)**
#### 3.His Excellency Thabo Mbeki
On this Sixth Graduation Ceremony of Dedan Kimathi University of Technology, the Senate of the University, under the powers conferred by Article 20(3) (j) of Dedan Kimathi University of Technology Charter, and with the consent of the University Council, has determined that His Excellency Thabo Mbeki, the former President of the Republic of South Africa, be awarded the Doctor of Humane Letters, Litterarum Humanorum Doctore (honoris causa) of this University. It is a great honour to our University and to the current and future graduands that His Excellency has accepted this award. ****
####  4.Prof. Minoru Sasaki
On this Eighth Graduation Ceremony of Dedan Kimathi University of Technology, the Senate of the University, under the powers conferred by Article 20(3) (j) of Dedan Kimathi University of Technology Charter, and with the consent of the University Council, has determined that Prof. Minoru Sasaki, be awarded the Doctor of Engineering,_honoris causa_ (D. Eng. _h.c_.) of this University. Prof. Sasaki has accepted this award. The University Senate, in making this award, noted that Prof. Sasaki, throughout his life, has made many enormous contributions to humanity through research and outreach activities. ****
####  5.Prof. Akihiko Saito
On this Eighth Graduation Ceremony of Dedan KimathiUniversity of Technology, the Senate of the University, under the powers conferred by Article 20(3) (j) of the Dedan Kimathi University of Technology Charter, and with the consent of the University Council, has determined that Prof. Akihiko Saito be awarded the Doctor of Engineering, _honoriscausa_ (D. Eng._h.c.)_ of this University. It is a great honour to our University and to the current and future graduands that Prof. Saito has accepted this award. The University Senate, in making this award, noted that Prof. Saito, throughout his life, has made many enormous contributions to humanity. ****
