##  Dedan Kimathi University Profile 

Dedan Kimathi University of Technology (DeKUT) was established under the University’s Act 2012 by the Government of Kenya in December 2012. It is a Public University that focuses on Quality Education, Research, Innovation, Technology Development and Transfer. The University is a successor of Kimathi University College of Technology (KUCT), a constituent college of Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT). Before KUCT, the University was an institute going by the name Kimathi Institute of Technology (KIT) established by the community with the focus of building on education and technology to better the society; a heritage the University has held to this point and lives by.
The University offers a wide range of programmes both at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels in various Schools and Institutes. The programmes are spread across Engineering, Health & Applied Sciences, Business Management and Economics, Computing, Food Science and Technology, Leather Technology, Geothermal Energy Technology, Geomatics, Geospatial Information Systems and Remote Sensing, Tourism and Hospitality, Criminology and Forensics Management, Technical and Professional Studies. The University also offers diploma and Certificate courses for mid-level technical skills. The programmes offered by the University are approved by the Senate and the various designated bodies like the Engineers Board of Kenya (EBK) and Commission for University Education (CUE) that was established by the government of Kenya through the Commission for University Education Act, 2010. At the core of training in the various fields, DeKUT recognizes research as a pillar of both institutional and national development and her strategic focus is to create unique structures for research, innovation and technology development and transfer.
The University has been ambitious in establishing physical facilities to serve as lecture theatres, library, laboratories and offices for both administrative and academic staff. In line with her vision of being a Premier Technological University excelling in Quality Education, Research and Technology Transfer, DeKUT has put up expansive and well equipped Engineering workshops and supporting Physics and Chemistry laboratories.
In her pursuit to deliver on her vision and mission, Dedan Kimathi University of Technology (DeKUT) has continually leveraged on partnerships and collaborations that have led to establishments such as the upcoming Science and Technology Park; we are spearheading the establishment of a Science and Technology Park (STP), with the support of the Ministry of Education, which will be an engine for innovation, incubation, development and commercialization of technology. This will in turn stimulate the development of entrepreneurship, which will drive job creation in the country and develop self-reliant youths. This new development will help build on the existing University Innovation and Incubation Hub (DeHUB) to a very great extent and take the University to a point of strength in living her Vision.

